---
page_title_show: true
title: "Cylon 0.15.0 is Out!"
page_title: Blog
date: 2014-06-13
tags: robots
author: Andrew Stewart
active_menu_blog: true
---

Cylon 0.15.0 has just been released, as part of our run-up to `1.0.0`. It has
a number of small changes, mainly effecting how modules are written. Don't
worry, there's still a lot of changes for end-users as well!

Here's a overview of the changes, but if you want to see more check out the
[compare view][] on GitHub.

* **Better halting:** - Halting Cylon programs with Ctrl-C should now be more
  reliable, with a forced quit if the program can't gracefully stop within
a couple seconds.

* **Removed 'connect' and 'start' events from Adaptors/Drivers:** - due to how
  our startup works, by the time listeners could be set up for these events they
  were already fired.

* **Cleaner startup:** - we now lean more on the [async][] module to make sure
  Robot startup is as simple and efficient as possible.

* **Have some fun:** - you can now optionally pass a `play` block when creating
  a Robot, rather than `work`. Internally, they behave the same, but all work
  and no play makes Jack a dull boy!

* **Number#fromScale update:** - the `fromScale` extension to Number will now
  cap results to the top or bottom of the scale.

* **API Refactors:** - our API has been updated to use Express 4 (previously we
  were using 3.5). Additionally, several catch-all routes have been replaced by
  middleware. Overall, this substancially downsizes the dependency tree for
  Cylon.

* **Commands is now an array, not a function:** - previously, Adaptor/Driver
  `#commands` was a function that returned an array. For 0.15.0, we've eschewed
  that in favor of just directly accessing an array.

* **find{Robot,RobotConnection,RobotDevice} gone:** - we removed these
  previously used convenience methods from Cylon, in favor of manual lookup. To
  go with this change, `Cylon.robots` is now an object, not an array. Robots
  created with `Cylon.robot` are stored in this object, using their name as
  a key.

* **Utils (mostly) removed from global namespace:** - Most of the utility
  functions have been removed from the global namespace, with the exceptions of
  `every`, `after`, and `constantly`, as well as the extensions to `Number` we
  provide (`seconds`, `fromScale`, etc.). All utilities can still be found under
  the Cylon.Utils namespace.

## Contributors

A huge thanks to our contributors who made this release possible. And a special
thanks to new contributors [Andrew Nesbitt][], [Chris Boette][], and [Fábio
Franco Uechi][]!

## Documentation

We're constantly updating the Cylon docs to keep them up-to-date. You can find
the latest info on the [docs page][].

## Issues

If you find any issues with Cylon, please let us know! We try to be on IRC
(#cylon on freenode) as much as possible, but if we're not around leave us
a [GitHub issue][] and we'll get back to you as soon as possible.

[compare view]: http://github.com/hybridgroup/cylon/compare/v0.14.0...HEAD

[async]: https://github.com/caolan/async

[Fábio Franco Uechi]: https://github.com/fabito
[Andrew Nesbitt]: https://github.com/andrew
[Chris Boette]: https://github.com/chrisbodhi

[docs page]: https://cylonjs.com/documentation
[GitHub issue]: https://github.com/hybridgroup/cylon/issues
